guide/api-conventions.asciidoc, before:

[[guide-api-conventions]]
[role="chunk-page"]
== API conventions

This section describes general API conventions that can be applied
throughout the REST API, unless otherwise specified.

[[guide-api-conventions-http-verbs]]
=== HTTP verbs

Where possible, API strives to use appropriate HTTP verbs.

[cols="1,5",options="header,autowidth"]
|===
^|Verb
^|Description

|GET
|Used for retrieving resources.

|POST
|Used for creating resources.

|PUT
|Used for fully updating resources.

|PATCH
|Used for partially updating resources.

|DELETE
|Used for deleting resources.
|===

[[guide-api-conventions-errors]]
[role="chunk-toc"]
=== Errors

--
--

[[guide-api-conventions-errors-http-statuses]]
==== HTTP statuses

If everything is ok, the response is returned with an HTTP status 200.

In case of errors, the following HTTP statuses can be used:

[cols="1,5",options="header,autowidth"]
|===
^|Status
^|Description

|400
|Bad Request from the client.

|403
|Forbidden. The client is now allowed.

|404
|Not Found. The resource does not exist.

|409
|Conflict. Version control conflict.

|500
|Internal Server Error. There is server side error. This should not happen.

|503
|Service Unavailable. There is a temporary service migration. The call can be retried after a short delay.
|===

[[guide-api-conventions-errors-structure]]
==== Structure

The following represents a common error response resulting from a failed
API request:

[source,js]
----
{
  "error": {
    "status": 400, //<1>
    "code": 11003, //<2>
    "message": "The provided access token is invalid" //<3>
  }
}
----
<1> the HTTP status.
<2> WonderPush error code.
<3> human friendly error description.

[[guide-api-conventions-errors-reference]]
==== Reference

Here are the various errors that can be returned by WonderPush,
presented here ordered by code:

[cols="1,1,5",options="header"]
|===
^|Code
^|Status
^|Description

|10000
|404
|No handler found

|10001
|400
|When an invalid parameter is given

|10002
|400
|When a mandatory parameter has been omitted

|10005
|400
|When http is used for a method where https is mandatory

|12000
|404
|When an application does not exist

|12001
|404
|When a staff member does not exist

|12002
|404
|When a user does not exist

|12003
|409
|When a user already exists

|12009
|500
|When an unexpected error occured

|12010
|403
|When a staff has not the rights for the action

|12011
|403
|When a user has not the rights for the action

|12012
|404
|When a staff member answers to an unexisting invitation

|12013
|404
|When someone is not part of a staff as it is intended

|12014
|400
|When submitting an invalid certificate

|12015
|400
|When a staff member tries to use the API without having a verified email

|12016
|404
|When certificate does not exist

|12017
|400
|When an expected request signature is invalid

|12018
|400
|When there is a security risk

|12019
|400
|When using API with an unsupported platform

|12020
|403
|When the provided service access token is invalid

|12024
|404
|When accessing the user of a userless installation

|12025
|400
|When an expected installation body is invalid

|12026
|400
|When an expected user body is invalid
|===

[[guide-api-conventions-pretty-printing]]
=== Pretty printing

For all endpoints returning JSON response you can append +?pretty=true+ to
your requests to pretty print the result (use it for debugging purpose
only).

[[guide-api-conventions-pagination]]
=== Pagination

Some endpoints return multiple items at once. In that case, when
relevant +prev+ and +next+ cursors are returned in the response. You can use
these cursors to navigate in both directions throughout the result
items. A +count+ parameter is also exposed to define how much items to
return.

[[guide-api-conventions-partial-response]]
=== Partial response

If you don't need the whole content of the response, some endpoints
allow specifying a set of fields to return by setting the +fields+ parameter.
The +fields+ parameter is given as a comma separated list of field names.

[[guide-api-conventions-booleans]]
=== Booleans

All REST APIs parameters support providing boolean
_false_ as the values: +0+, +false+, +f+, +n+, +no+, +false+
and _true_ as the values: +1+, +true+, +t+, +y+, +yes+.

[[guide-api-conventions-timestamps]]
=== Timestamps

Unix timestamp in milliseconds.
The name of fields containing such values end with +date+.

[[guide-api-conventions-durations]]
=== Durations

The name of fields containing durations end with +time+.

Durations can be defined in two ways. As an integer or as a human
readable string.

When defining a time as an integer, WonderPush interprets it as a value
in milliseconds.

Milliseconds are not really handy to represent durations. For
convenience, WonderPush let's you express durations as strings. An
integer value followed by a unit (optionally separated by a space).

Here is a list of the units you can use:

* Milliseconds: +ms+, +millisecond+ or +milliseconds+
* Seconds: +s+, +sec+, +second+ or +seconds+
* Minutes: +m+, +min+, +minute+, +minutes+
* Hours: +h+, +hr+, +hour+ or +hours+
* Days: +d+, +day+ or +days+
* Weeks: +w+, +week+ or +weeks+

Examples: +5s+, +120 sec+, +15 minutes+, +36 hours+, +3 day+, +4 weeks+.

[[guide-api-conventions-internationalization]]
=== Internationalization

WonderPush supports multi-lingual and locale-sensitive texts and number formatting.

The following language codes are supported:

[cols="4,1",options="header,autowidth"]
|===
^|Language
^|Code

|Afrikaans
|af

|Arabic
|ar

|Belarusian
|be

|Bulgarian
|bg

|Bengali
|bn

|Catalan
|ca

|Czech
|cs

|Danish
|da

|German
|de

|Greek
|el

|English
|en

|English (UK)
|en_GB

|English (US)
|en_US

|Spanish
|es

|Spanish (Spain)
|es_ES

|Spanish (Mexico)
|es_MX

|Estonian
|et

|Persian
|fa

|Finnish
|fi

|French
|fr

|French (France)
|fr_FR

|French (Canada)
|fr_CA

|Hebrew
|he

|Hindi
|hi

|Croatian
|hr

|Hungarian
|hu

|Indonesian
|id

|Icelandic
|is

|Italian
|it

|Japanese
|ja

|Korean
|ko

|Lithuanian
|lt

|Latvian
|lv

|Macedonian
|mk

|Malay
|ms

|Norwegian Bokmal
|nb

|Dutch
|nl

|Panjabi
|pa

|Polish
|pl

|Portuguese
|pt

|Portuguese (Portugal)
|pt_PT

|Portuguese (Brazil)
|pt_BR

|Romanian
|ro

|Russian
|ru

|Slovak
|sk

|Slovenian
|sl

|Albanian
|sq

|Serbian
|sr

|Swedish
|sv

|Swahili
|sw

|Tamil
|ta

|Thai
|th

|Tagalog
|tl

|Turkish
|tr

|Ukrainian
|uk

|Vietnamese
|vi

|Chinese
|zh

|Chinese (Simplified)
|zh_CN

|Chinese (Hong Kong)
|zh_HK

|Chinese (Traditional)
|zh_TW
|===

[[guide-api-conventions-versioning]]
=== Versioning

WonderPush API endpoints are versioned and the version has to be
specified in the path of every API call. Current version is 1,
therefore all API calls begins with +https://api.wonderpush.com/v1/*+.

The API version will only be incremented if we introduced major changes
breaking backward compatibility. In that case, calls to previous API
version will continue to work for a few months to ensure that already
released applications will continue to work properly.

The API versioning has a direct incidence on our official SDKs
versioning.

We use a four-part version number which consists of a major version, a
minor version, a feature number and patch number. The patch number is
incremented for minor changes and bug fixes. The feature number is
incremented when the SDK exposes a new feature. The minor version is
incremented for SDK releases that are not backward compatible. The major
version matches the WonderPush API version. For example, an SDK versioned
1.x.x.x is designed to interact with the WonderPush API v1, upgrading
between 1.0.x.x to 1.1.x.x will imply code changes, 1.0.1.x will expose
new functionalities compared to 1.0.0.x, while being fully compatible
with the latter, and 1.0.0.1 only contains bugfixes compared to 1.0.0.0.

Should you decide to implement and distribute your own clients for
WonderPush, we encourage you to follow the same versioning scheme.

[[guide-api-conventions-platforms-and-models]]
[role="chunk-toc"]
=== Platforms & Models

--
--

[[guide-api-conventions-platforms-and-models-platforms]]
==== Platforms

As of now WonderPush allows the following platforms for your applications:

* iOS
* Android
* Windows Phone
* Firefox OS
* BlackBerry OS
* BlackBerry TabletOS
* Bada
* Brew
* GridOS
* MeeGo
* Mer Project
* S40
* SHR
* Symbian OS
* WebOS
* Adobe Flash
* Web
* Linux
* Mac OS X
* Windows

If you think that your platform of choice is missing feel free to
https://github.com/wonderpush/wonderpush/issues/new?labels=enhancement&title=Add%20support%20for%20platform%20X["open an issue", window="_blank"]
and we will add it.

[[guide-api-conventions-platforms-and-models-models]]
==== Models

There are no restriction for the models you can use except that when
using iOS as a platform you have to provide a model compatible with it
(iPhone*, iPod*, iPad*...).

[[guide-api-conventions-cross-origin-resource-sharing]]
=== Cross-Origin Resource Sharing

The API supports Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for AJAX requests.
You can read the http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/["CORS W3C working draft", window="_blank"], or
http://code.google.com/p/html5security/wiki/CrossOriginRequestSecurity["this
intro", window="_blank"] from the HTML 5 Security Guide.

Commit message:

Document bad credentials and access token errors

guide/api-conventions.asciidoc, after:

[[guide-api-conventions]]
[role="chunk-page"]
== API conventions

This section describes general API conventions that can be applied
throughout the REST API, unless otherwise specified.

[[guide-api-conventions-http-verbs]]
=== HTTP verbs

Where possible, API strives to use appropriate HTTP verbs.

[cols="1,5",options="header,autowidth"]
|===
^|Verb
^|Description

|GET
|Used for retrieving resources.

|POST
|Used for creating resources.

|PUT
|Used for fully updating resources.

|PATCH
|Used for partially updating resources.

|DELETE
|Used for deleting resources.
|===

[[guide-api-conventions-errors]]
[role="chunk-toc"]
=== Errors

--
--

[[guide-api-conventions-errors-http-statuses]]
==== HTTP statuses

If everything is ok, the response is returned with an HTTP status 200.

In case of errors, the following HTTP statuses can be used:

[cols="1,5",options="header,autowidth"]
|===
^|Status
^|Description

|400
|Bad Request from the client.

|403
|Forbidden. The client is now allowed.

|404
|Not Found. The resource does not exist.

|409
|Conflict. Version control conflict.

|500
|Internal Server Error. There is server side error. This should not happen.

|503
|Service Unavailable. There is a temporary service migration. The call can be retried after a short delay.
|===

[[guide-api-conventions-errors-structure]]
==== Structure

The following represents a common error response resulting from a failed
API request:

[source,js]
----
{
  "error": {
    "status": 400, //<1>
    "code": 11003, //<2>
    "message": "The provided access token is invalid" //<3>
  }
}
----
<1> the HTTP status.
<2> WonderPush error code.
<3> human friendly error description.

[[guide-api-conventions-errors-reference]]
==== Reference

Here are the various errors that can be returned by WonderPush,
presented here ordered by code:

[cols="1,1,5",options="header"]
|===
^|Code
^|Status
^|Description

|10000
|404
|No handler found

|10001
|400
|When an invalid parameter is given

|10002
|400
|When a mandatory parameter has been omitted

|10005
|400
|When http is used for a method where https is mandatory

|11000
|400
|When an invalid client credentials are given

|11003
|403
|The provided access token is invalid

|12000
|404
|When an application does not exist

|12001
|404
|When a staff member does not exist

|12002
|404
|When a user does not exist

|12003
|409
|When a user already exists

|12009
|500
|When an unexpected error occured

|12010
|403
|When a staff has not the rights for the action

|12011
|403
|When a user has not the rights for the action

|12012
|404
|When a staff member answers to an unexisting invitation

|12013
|404
|When someone is not part of a staff as it is intended

|12014
|400
|When submitting an invalid certificate

|12015
|400
|When a staff member tries to use the API without having a verified email

|12016
|404
|When certificate does not exist

|12017
|400
|When an expected request signature is invalid

|12018
|400
|When there is a security risk

|12019
|400
|When using API with an unsupported platform

|12020
|403
|When the provided service access token is invalid

|12024
|404
|When accessing the user of a userless installation

|12025
|400
|When an expected installation body is invalid

|12026
|400
|When an expected user body is invalid
|===

[[guide-api-conventions-pretty-printing]]
=== Pretty printing

For all endpoints returning JSON response you can append +?pretty=true+ to
your requests to pretty print the result (use it for debugging purpose
only).

[[guide-api-conventions-pagination]]
=== Pagination

Some endpoints return multiple items at once. In that case, when
relevant +prev+ and +next+ cursors are returned in the response. You can use
these cursors to navigate in both directions throughout the result
items. A +count+ parameter is also exposed to define how much items to
return.

[[guide-api-conventions-partial-response]]
=== Partial response

If you don't need the whole content of the response, some endpoints
allow specifying a set of fields to return by setting the +fields+ parameter.
The +fields+ parameter is given as a comma separated list of field names.

[[guide-api-conventions-booleans]]
=== Booleans

All REST APIs parameters support providing boolean
_false_ as the values: +0+, +false+, +f+, +n+, +no+, +false+
and _true_ as the values: +1+, +true+, +t+, +y+, +yes+.

[[guide-api-conventions-timestamps]]
=== Timestamps

Unix timestamp in milliseconds.
The name of fields containing such values end with +date+.

[[guide-api-conventions-durations]]
=== Durations

The name of fields containing durations end with +time+.

Durations can be defined in two ways. As an integer or as a human
readable string.

When defining a time as an integer, WonderPush interprets it as a value
in milliseconds.

Milliseconds are not really handy to represent durations. For
convenience, WonderPush let's you express durations as strings. An
integer value followed by a unit (optionally separated by a space).

Here is a list of the units you can use:

* Milliseconds: +ms+, +millisecond+ or +milliseconds+
* Seconds: +s+, +sec+, +second+ or +seconds+
* Minutes: +m+, +min+, +minute+, +minutes+
* Hours: +h+, +hr+, +hour+ or +hours+
* Days: +d+, +day+ or +days+
* Weeks: +w+, +week+ or +weeks+

Examples: +5s+, +120 sec+, +15 minutes+, +36 hours+, +3 day+, +4 weeks+.

[[guide-api-conventions-internationalization]]
=== Internationalization

WonderPush supports multi-lingual and locale-sensitive texts and number formatting.

The following language codes are supported:

[cols="4,1",options="header,autowidth"]
|===
^|Language
^|Code

|Afrikaans
|af

|Arabic
|ar

|Belarusian
|be

|Bulgarian
|bg

|Bengali
|bn

|Catalan
|ca

|Czech
|cs

|Danish
|da

|German
|de

|Greek
|el

|English
|en

|English (UK)
|en_GB

|English (US)
|en_US

|Spanish
|es

|Spanish (Spain)
|es_ES

|Spanish (Mexico)
|es_MX

|Estonian
|et

|Persian
|fa

|Finnish
|fi

|French
|fr

|French (France)
|fr_FR

|French (Canada)
|fr_CA

|Hebrew
|he

|Hindi
|hi

|Croatian
|hr

|Hungarian
|hu

|Indonesian
|id

|Icelandic
|is

|Italian
|it

|Japanese
|ja

|Korean
|ko

|Lithuanian
|lt

|Latvian
|lv

|Macedonian
|mk

|Malay
|ms

|Norwegian Bokmal
|nb

|Dutch
|nl

|Panjabi
|pa

|Polish
|pl

|Portuguese
|pt

|Portuguese (Portugal)
|pt_PT

|Portuguese (Brazil)
|pt_BR

|Romanian
|ro

|Russian
|ru

|Slovak
|sk

|Slovenian
|sl

|Albanian
|sq

|Serbian
|sr

|Swedish
|sv

|Swahili
|sw

|Tamil
|ta

|Thai
|th

|Tagalog
|tl

|Turkish
|tr

|Ukrainian
|uk

|Vietnamese
|vi

|Chinese
|zh

|Chinese (Simplified)
|zh_CN

|Chinese (Hong Kong)
|zh_HK

|Chinese (Traditional)
|zh_TW
|===

[[guide-api-conventions-versioning]]
=== Versioning

WonderPush API endpoints are versioned and the version has to be
specified in the path of every API call. Current version is 1,
therefore all API calls begins with +https://api.wonderpush.com/v1/*+.

The API version will only be incremented if we introduced major changes
breaking backward compatibility. In that case, calls to previous API
version will continue to work for a few months to ensure that already
released applications will continue to work properly.

The API versioning has a direct incidence on our official SDKs
versioning.

We use a four-part version number which consists of a major version, a
minor version, a feature number and patch number. The patch number is
incremented for minor changes and bug fixes. The feature number is
incremented when the SDK exposes a new feature. The minor version is
incremented for SDK releases that are not backward compatible. The major
version matches the WonderPush API version. For example, an SDK versioned
1.x.x.x is designed to interact with the WonderPush API v1, upgrading
between 1.0.x.x to 1.1.x.x will imply code changes, 1.0.1.x will expose
new functionalities compared to 1.0.0.x, while being fully compatible
with the latter, and 1.0.0.1 only contains bugfixes compared to 1.0.0.0.

Should you decide to implement and distribute your own clients for
WonderPush, we encourage you to follow the same versioning scheme.

[[guide-api-conventions-platforms-and-models]]
[role="chunk-toc"]
=== Platforms & Models

--
--

[[guide-api-conventions-platforms-and-models-platforms]]
==== Platforms

As of now WonderPush allows the following platforms for your applications:

* iOS
* Android
* Windows Phone
* Firefox OS
* BlackBerry OS
* BlackBerry TabletOS
* Bada
* Brew
* GridOS
* MeeGo
* Mer Project
* S40
* SHR
* Symbian OS
* WebOS
* Adobe Flash
* Web
* Linux
* Mac OS X
* Windows

If you think that your platform of choice is missing feel free to
https://github.com/wonderpush/wonderpush/issues/new?labels=enhancement&title=Add%20support%20for%20platform%20X["open an issue", window="_blank"]
and we will add it.

[[guide-api-conventions-platforms-and-models-models]]
==== Models

There are no restriction for the models you can use except that when
using iOS as a platform you have to provide a model compatible with it
(iPhone*, iPod*, iPad*...).

[[guide-api-conventions-cross-origin-resource-sharing]]
=== Cross-Origin Resource Sharing

The API supports Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for AJAX requests.
You can read the http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/["CORS W3C working draft", window="_blank"], or
http://code.google.com/p/html5security/wiki/CrossOriginRequestSecurity["this
intro", window="_blank"] from the HTML 5 Security Guide.
