guide/concepts.asciidoc, before:

[[guide-concepts]]
[role="chunk-page"]
== Concepts

--
--

[[guide-concepts-overview]]
=== Overview

WonderPush is a mobile CRM platform, designed for marketers.
We provide services to increase usage, retention and revenues to your
apps and let you reach out, interact and gain insights from your users
on mobile.

We offer a rich set of features including:

* Push notifications
* In-app messages
* Audience segmentation and targeting
* Message creation, A/B testing and personalization
* Deep Linking
* Cross Promotion
* Geozones
* Automation
* Analytics
* And a whole lot more!

[[guide-concepts-philosophy]]
=== Philosophy

When developing WonderPush we always try to respect these few core
principles:

* Scalability. We are distributed worldwide and using state of the art
  technologies (http://cassandra.apache.org/["Cassandra", window="_blank"],
  http://www.elasticsearch.org/["Elasticsearch", window="_blank"],
  http://www.rabbitmq.com/["RabbitMQ", window="_blank"], http://www.erlang.org/["Erlang", window="_blank"]).
* Simplicity. You will be able to start and test a standard integration
  in minutes. We provide some sensible defaults, prepackaged notifications
  and SDKs for a quick integration.
* Flexibility. There are many different kind of applications and platforms
  and a wide variety of use cases. We want to make sure that everything is
  as flexible and configurable as needed to fulfill your needs.
* Customizability. You have the choice to pick only some of the services
  we offer. You are able to customize everything for a deeper integration
  in your application. You are able to go SDK-less and decide how you want
  to interact with WonderPush.
* You own your data. You can decide to stop using WonderPush dynamically
  at any time. You can fetch all your application data from your users'
  profiles to their tracked events.
* Availability. We'll do everything we can to achieve 100% uptime. When
  we fall short, we'll explain why and how we'll do better next time.

[[guide-concepts-api-organization]]
=== API organization

WonderPush exposes
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer["REST", window="_blank"] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_programming_interface["APIs", window="_blank"] through
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON["JSON", window="_blank"] over
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Secure["HTTPS", window="_blank"].

All API access is over http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Secure["HTTPS", window="_blank"],
and accessed over the ++api.wonderpush.com++ domain.

The REST API is two-part:

. The Management API, exposed to developers, can be used directly to
  manage applications and configurations without using the WonderPush
  dashboard website. It can be quite useful for batch operations, for
  example if you want to create many notifications.
  It must not be called directly from your application.
. The API, called from your applications, to perform all user-related
  tasks, like tracking events, adding a tag, editting notification
  preferences or reading in-app messages.
  Those endpoints return data in JSON.

[[guide-concepts-api-clients]]
=== API clients

Any HTTPS-enabled client can interact directly with WonderPush through
the REST API. +
For more convenience, we provide
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_development_kit["SDKs", window="_blank"] for the main
languages and platforms (Android, iOS, Windows Phone, Web).

In addition we provide a command-line client to help you try API calls:
https://github.com/wonderpush/wonderpush-python-lib["Python command-line tool", window="_blank"].

[[guide-concepts-security]]
[role="chunk-toc"]
=== Security

--
--

[[guide-concepts-security-http-https-calls]]
==== HTTP/HTTPS calls

All API access is over http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Secure["HTTPS", window="_blank"].

Take a look at the <<guide-api-conventions-limits,limits imposed on the requests>>.

[[guide-concepts-security-api-access]]
==== API access

[[guide-concepts-security-api-access-access-token-and-sid]]
===== Access token and sid

Most API calls are made for a given user on a specific application
on a device. Therefore, before interacting with the API endpoints,
the user must first obtain an access token.

The access token has to be given to all JSON API calls.

Access tokens are associated on the server side to:

* A device
* An installation
* A user
* An application

[[guide-concepts-security-api-access-authentication]]
===== Authentication

In order to interact with the WonderPush API you have first to
authenticate your user to obtain an access token.

If you are using one of our SDKs, you do not need to take care of this,
the SDKs do it for you.

You can learn more about user authentication in the more detailed
<<guide-authentication,authentication>> section.

[[guide-concepts-security-api-access-signature]]
===== Signature

All API calls leading to side-effects i.e. with POST, PUT, PATCH or
DELETE HTTP verbs, need to provide a signature.

If you are using one of our SDKs, you do not need to take care of this,
the SDKs do it for you. +
You can also try our <<guide-concepts-api-clients,command-line client>>,
which also performs signature computation.

The signature algorithm is inspired by OAuth 1.0, described
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5849#section-3.4["here", window="_blank"],
using HMAC-SHA1 keyed with the application's client secret.
The signature has to be given as a header with the following format:

+X-WonderPush-Authorization: WonderPush sig="ENCODED_CALCULATED_SIGNATURE", meth="0"+

For convenience, you can interact with the service from your console
without providing the signature by using the header
+X-WonderPush-Lenient: true+ and providing your client secret using
an additional +clientSecret+ parameter. This is available only for
debug purpose only and you shouldn't rely on this behavior in production.
If you use the lenient mode and don't provide
a signature, the response will contain the following header
+X-WonderPush-Warning: Invalid request signature.+

The exact algorithm to compute the signature from your request is
commonly used and implemented in our SDKs, as well as in various
languages and libraries.

If you're going SDK-less, you'll need to reimplement it as follows:

. Compute the clear signature, summarizing the whole request.
. Hash it using your game's clientSecret.
. Format the authorization header to add the signature to your request.

The clear signature is composed of the following fields, encoded (see
below) and joined with "&":

* HTTP method, uppercased
* URI: as the concatenation of

** Scheme: "http" or "https", lowercased
** "://"
** HTTP host, lowercased
** Query path, until the first "?". Must always start with a "/".

* Parameters: encode keys and values, sort on keys, join keys and values
with "=", join them with "&".
* Raw body if not Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded. If
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded, consider this part as
an empty string.

This string contains all the information we will sign, hence protecting
you against tampering.

The encoding method is as follows as defined in
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5849#section-3.6["here", window="_blank"]:

* Text values are first encoded as UTF-8 octets if they are not
already. +
This does not include binary values that are not intended for human
consumption (ie. everything except application/x-www-form-urlencoded
data).
* The values are then escaped using the percent-encoding (%XX) mechanism
as follows, considering the string byte by byte:

* Leave intact the characters from the following unreserved character
set: (ALPHA:"a-zA-Z", DIGIT:"0-9", "-", ".", "_", "~"). They must not be
encoded.
* Encode every other byte as sprintf("%%%02X", ord($char)). This means a
"%" percent sign, followed by a 2 digit hexadecimal value of the byte,
in uppercase. +
Note that e acute (é), would get encoded into "%C3%A9".

Hash the clear signature using the HMAC-SHA1 procedure, keyed with your
game's clientSecret. This step both proves that you are in possession of
this secret, and hence permits not to disclose it in the request.

The calculated signature should further be:

* base64 encoded (as per
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2045#section-6.8["RFC2045 §6.8", window="_blank"], using the
charset A-Za-z0-9+/ and padding "=")
* then percent encoded (for "+", "/", and "=")

This step is necessary to output a well-formed header.

Finally add the following header to the request:

+X-WonderPush-Authorization: WonderPush sig="ENCODED_CALCULATED_SIGNATURE", meth="0"+

Here is an valid example:
[source,sh]
----
curl -XPOST\
'https://api.wonderpush.com/v1/authentication/accessToken'\
'?clientId=eff6e7cb401d17367078be29792d132da3eb54cd'\
'&sdkVersion=Android-1.0.9.1'\
'&devicePlatform=Android'\
'&deviceModel=Nexus+4'\
'&deviceId=e1df74bcff7a3775'\
-H 'X-WonderPush-Authorization: WonderPush sig="QZfnGkioRhAnjaYNKQZKpPNQVtw%3D", meth="0"'
# Signature before HMAC_SHA1:
# POST&https%3A%2F%2Fapi.wonderpush.com%2Fv1%2Fauthentication%2FaccessToken&clientId%3Deff6e7cb401d17367078be29792d132da3eb54cd%26deviceId%3De1df74bcff7a3775%26deviceModel%3DNexus%25204%26devicePlatform%3DAndroid%26sdkVersion%3DAndroid-1.0.9.1&
----

As a side note, please note that the following are not allowed:

* Multiple occurrence of keys in both the URI query and HTTP request
body (for application/x-www-form-urlencoded requests).
* enctype="multipart/form-data".
* Array key/values, like: ?list[]=first&list[]=second.

[[guide-concepts-security-management-api-access]]
==== Management API access

To interact with the Management API you have to use the application
access token. You can obtain it in the WonderPush dashboard, under
the _Settings / Keys_ menu.

Commit message:

Signature calculation is not required for the Management API

guide/concepts.asciidoc, after:

[[guide-concepts]]
[role="chunk-page"]
== Concepts

--
--

[[guide-concepts-overview]]
=== Overview

WonderPush is a mobile CRM platform, designed for marketers.
We provide services to increase usage, retention and revenues to your
apps and let you reach out, interact and gain insights from your users
on mobile.

We offer a rich set of features including:

* Push notifications
* In-app messages
* Audience segmentation and targeting
* Message creation, A/B testing and personalization
* Deep Linking
* Cross Promotion
* Geozones
* Automation
* Analytics
* And a whole lot more!

[[guide-concepts-philosophy]]
=== Philosophy

When developing WonderPush we always try to respect these few core
principles:

* Scalability. We are distributed worldwide and using state of the art
  technologies (http://cassandra.apache.org/["Cassandra", window="_blank"],
  http://www.elasticsearch.org/["Elasticsearch", window="_blank"],
  http://www.rabbitmq.com/["RabbitMQ", window="_blank"], http://www.erlang.org/["Erlang", window="_blank"]).
* Simplicity. You will be able to start and test a standard integration
  in minutes. We provide some sensible defaults, prepackaged notifications
  and SDKs for a quick integration.
* Flexibility. There are many different kind of applications and platforms
  and a wide variety of use cases. We want to make sure that everything is
  as flexible and configurable as needed to fulfill your needs.
* Customizability. You have the choice to pick only some of the services
  we offer. You are able to customize everything for a deeper integration
  in your application. You are able to go SDK-less and decide how you want
  to interact with WonderPush.
* You own your data. You can decide to stop using WonderPush dynamically
  at any time. You can fetch all your application data from your users'
  profiles to their tracked events.
* Availability. We'll do everything we can to achieve 100% uptime. When
  we fall short, we'll explain why and how we'll do better next time.

[[guide-concepts-api-organization]]
=== API organization

WonderPush exposes
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer["REST", window="_blank"] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_programming_interface["APIs", window="_blank"] through
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON["JSON", window="_blank"] over
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Secure["HTTPS", window="_blank"].

All API access is over http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Secure["HTTPS", window="_blank"],
and accessed over the ++api.wonderpush.com++ domain.

The REST API is two-part:

. The Management API, exposed to developers, can be used directly to
  manage applications and configurations without using the WonderPush
  dashboard website. It can be quite useful for batch operations, for
  example if you want to create many notifications.
  It must not be called directly from your application.
. The API, called from your applications, to perform all user-related
  tasks, like tracking events, adding a tag, editting notification
  preferences or reading in-app messages.
  Those endpoints return data in JSON.

[[guide-concepts-api-clients]]
=== API clients

Any HTTPS-enabled client can interact directly with WonderPush through
the REST API. +
For more convenience, we provide
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_development_kit["SDKs", window="_blank"] for the main
languages and platforms (Android, iOS, Windows Phone, Web).

In addition we provide a command-line client to help you try API calls:
https://github.com/wonderpush/wonderpush-python-lib["Python command-line tool", window="_blank"].

[[guide-concepts-security]]
[role="chunk-toc"]
=== Security

--
--

[[guide-concepts-security-http-https-calls]]
==== HTTP/HTTPS calls

All API access is over http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Secure["HTTPS", window="_blank"].

Take a look at the <<guide-api-conventions-limits,limits imposed on the requests>>.

[[guide-concepts-security-api-access]]
==== API access

[[guide-concepts-security-api-access-access-token-and-sid]]
===== Access token and sid

Most API calls are made for a given user on a specific application
on a device. Therefore, before interacting with the API endpoints,
the user must first obtain an access token.

The access token has to be given to all JSON API calls.

Access tokens are associated on the server side to:

* A device
* An installation
* A user
* An application

[[guide-concepts-security-api-access-authentication]]
===== Authentication

In order to interact with the WonderPush API you have first to
authenticate your user to obtain an access token.

If you are using one of our SDKs, you do not need to take care of this,
the SDKs do it for you.

You can learn more about user authentication in the more detailed
<<guide-authentication,authentication>> section.

[[guide-concepts-security-api-access-signature]]
===== Signature

All API calls leading to side-effects i.e. with POST, PUT, PATCH or
DELETE HTTP verbs, need to provide a signature. +
This security measure helps keeping your application client secret
private and protecting any undisclosed installation access token.

If you are using one of our SDKs, you do not need to take care of this,
the SDKs do it for you. +
You can also try our <<guide-concepts-api-clients,command-line client>>,
which also performs signature computation.

The signature algorithm is inspired by OAuth 1.0, described
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5849#section-3.4["here", window="_blank"],
using HMAC-SHA1 keyed with the application's client secret.
The signature has to be given as a header with the following format:

+X-WonderPush-Authorization: WonderPush sig="ENCODED_CALCULATED_SIGNATURE", meth="0"+

For convenience, you can interact with the service from your console
without providing the signature by using the header
+X-WonderPush-Lenient: true+ and providing your client secret using
an additional +clientSecret+ parameter. This is available only for
debug purpose only and you shouldn't rely on this behavior in production.
If you use the lenient mode and don't provide
a signature, the response will contain the following header
+X-WonderPush-Warning: Invalid request signature.+

The exact algorithm to compute the signature from your request is
commonly used and implemented in our SDKs, as well as in various
languages and libraries.

If you're going SDK-less, you'll need to reimplement it as follows:

. Compute the clear signature, summarizing the whole request.
. Hash it using your game's clientSecret.
. Format the authorization header to add the signature to your request.

The clear signature is composed of the following fields, encoded (see
below) and joined with "&":

* HTTP method, uppercased
* URI: as the concatenation of

** Scheme: "http" or "https", lowercased
** "://"
** HTTP host, lowercased
** Query path, until the first "?". Must always start with a "/".

* Parameters: encode keys and values, sort on keys, join keys and values
with "=", join them with "&".
* Raw body if not Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded. If
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded, consider this part as
an empty string.

This string contains all the information we will sign, hence protecting
you against tampering.

The encoding method is as follows as defined in
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5849#section-3.6["here", window="_blank"]:

* Text values are first encoded as UTF-8 octets if they are not
already. +
This does not include binary values that are not intended for human
consumption (ie. everything except application/x-www-form-urlencoded
data).
* The values are then escaped using the percent-encoding (%XX) mechanism
as follows, considering the string byte by byte:

* Leave intact the characters from the following unreserved character
set: (ALPHA:"a-zA-Z", DIGIT:"0-9", "-", ".", "_", "~"). They must not be
encoded.
* Encode every other byte as sprintf("%%%02X", ord($char)). This means a
"%" percent sign, followed by a 2 digit hexadecimal value of the byte,
in uppercase. +
Note that e acute (é), would get encoded into "%C3%A9".

Hash the clear signature using the HMAC-SHA1 procedure, keyed with your
game's clientSecret. This step both proves that you are in possession of
this secret, and hence permits not to disclose it in the request.

The calculated signature should further be:

* base64 encoded (as per
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2045#section-6.8["RFC2045 §6.8", window="_blank"], using the
charset A-Za-z0-9+/ and padding "=")
* then percent encoded (for "+", "/", and "=")

This step is necessary to output a well-formed header.

Finally add the following header to the request:

+X-WonderPush-Authorization: WonderPush sig="ENCODED_CALCULATED_SIGNATURE", meth="0"+

Here is an valid example:
[source,sh]
----
curl -XPOST\
'https://api.wonderpush.com/v1/authentication/accessToken'\
'?clientId=eff6e7cb401d17367078be29792d132da3eb54cd'\
'&sdkVersion=Android-1.0.9.1'\
'&devicePlatform=Android'\
'&deviceModel=Nexus+4'\
'&deviceId=e1df74bcff7a3775'\
-H 'X-WonderPush-Authorization: WonderPush sig="QZfnGkioRhAnjaYNKQZKpPNQVtw%3D", meth="0"'
# Signature before HMAC_SHA1:
# POST&https%3A%2F%2Fapi.wonderpush.com%2Fv1%2Fauthentication%2FaccessToken&clientId%3Deff6e7cb401d17367078be29792d132da3eb54cd%26deviceId%3De1df74bcff7a3775%26deviceModel%3DNexus%25204%26devicePlatform%3DAndroid%26sdkVersion%3DAndroid-1.0.9.1&
----

As a side note, please note that the following are not allowed:

* Multiple occurrence of keys in both the URI query and HTTP request
body (for application/x-www-form-urlencoded requests).
* enctype="multipart/form-data".
* Array key/values, like: ?list[]=first&list[]=second.

[[guide-concepts-security-management-api-access]]
==== Management API access

To interact with the Management API you have to use the application
access token. You can obtain it in the WonderPush dashboard, under
the _Settings / Keys_ menu.

Note that the above signature calculation is not required when using
your application access token, as it is easily kept undisclosed.
